[DOCS-1920] Document run metrics z-score automations (#2016)
wandb/docs: models/automations/automation-events.mdx

![Screenshot showing a run metrics change threshold automation](/images/automations/run_metrics_change_threshold_automation.png)
</Frame>

#### Run metrics z-score change

> <Note>

Reviewer: Do we want to create a reusable include for this?

Author: Done

> Currently available only in [W&B Multi-tenant Cloud](/platform/hosting/#wb-multi-tenant-cloud).

Reviewer 2: and we just update this when it's on server right?

</Note>

> For **Run metrics z-score threshold met** events, the automation triggers when a metric's z-score (standard score) exceeds a specified threshold. A z-score indicates how many standard deviations a value is from the mean of all values for that metric across runs in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W&B can trigger an automation when a metric’s z-score (standard score) exceeds a specified threshold. A z-score measures how many standard deviations the value is from the mean for that metric across a configurable window of runs in the project (defaults to 30 runs).

To use a z-score as an event trigger, select the **Run metrics z-score threshold met** event.
```

Author: Applied with a small edit to explain about the window of runs to consider

> To create a z-score automation, you configure:

Reviewer: Where do we configure this?

Author: Aligned with similar text in the run metrics automation section, thanks

> To create a z-score automation, you configure:

Author: ```suggestion
Automations based on z-score keep your team informed about unusual performance without checking absolute thresholds, which may vary as your model or training process evolves.

You can create a run metrics z-score automation from the project's **Automations** tab or directly from a line plot panel in a workspace.

To create a z-score automation, you configure:
```

1. The target z-score threshold, expressed as a positive float value (for example, 2.0).
1. The window of logged values that determine the mean value (defaults to 30).
1. The comparison to make:
   - Above (trigger when performance is unusually high)
   - Below (trigger when performance is unusually low)

>    - Both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Either above or below
```

Author: I think we need to keep this. The UI is actually two checkmarks, so you can set up the automation to trigger for both above and below. I handle it as a separate bullet since it's not a separate setting, but an accumulation of settings.

> For example, trigger an automation when `accuracy` has a z-score above 2, indicating the run is performing significantly better than typical runs in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, trigger an automation when `accuracy` has a z-score above 2, which means the run is performing significantly better than other runs in the project.
```

Author: This is fine here, but the comparison is versus the mean of the window of runs in consideration, not versus all runs in the project.

> **Understanding z-0score values:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Understanding z-score values:**
```

- A z-score of 0 means the metric is at the average.
- A z-score of +2.0 means the metric is 2 standard deviations above average.
- A z-score of -2.0 means the metric is 2 standard deviations below average.
- Values beyond ±2 are often considered statistically significant outliers.

> Automations based on z-score keep your team informed about unusual performance without checking absolute thresholds, which may vary as your model or training process evolves.

Reviewer: I think this last sentence "Automations based ...." should be moved further up in this section.

Author: Done

Automations based on z-score keep your team informed about unusual performance without checking absolute thresholds, which may vary as your model or training process evolves.

You can create a run metrics z-score automation from the project's **Automations** tab or directly from a line plot panel in a workspace.

To create a z-score automation, you configure:
1. The target z-score threshold, expressed as a positive float value (for example, 2.0).
1. The window of logged values that determine the mean value (defaults to 30).
1. The comparison to make:
   - Above (trigger when performance is unusually high)
   - Below (trigger when performance is unusually low)
   - Either above or below

For example, trigger an automation when `accuracy` has a z-score above 2, which means the run is performing significantly better than other runs in the project.

**Understanding z-score values:**
- A z-score of 0 means the metric is at the average.
- A z-score of +2.0 means the metric is 2 standard deviations above average.
- A z-score of -2.0 means the metric is 2 standard deviations below average.
- Values beyond ±2 are often considered statistically significant outliers.

> Automations based on z-score keep your team informed about unusual performance without checking absolute thresholds, which may vary as your model or training process evolves.

Reviewer: Delete this duplicate sentence?

> Automations based on z-score keep your team informed about unusual performance without checking absolute thresholds, which may vary as your model or training process evolves.

Author: ```suggestion
```
